.TH AURA 1 "2026-04-16" "Aura 0.1.0" "Aura Manual"
.SH NAME
aura \- autonomous assistant on BEAM that orchestrates work through persistent
flares, scheduled tasks, and domain\-partitioned knowledge
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gleam run \-\- start
.br
.B gleam run \-\- init
.br
.B gleam run \-\- cognitive\-smoke gmail\-rel42
.br
.B gleam run \-\- cognitive\-eval fixtures
.br
.B gleam run \-\- cognitive\-label EVENT_ID LABEL [EXPECTED_ATTENTION] [NOTE...]
.br
.B gleam run \-\- cognitive\-delivery retry\-dead\-letter
.br
.B bash scripts/deploy.sh
.SH DESCRIPTION
Aura is an OTP application.
Every component is a supervised actor.
The brain receives Discord messages, routes them to domains, runs an LLM tool
loop, and dispatches flares for work that requires a coding agent.
Memory, state, and conversation history persist across restarts via SQLite and
structured markdown files.
.PP
Aura runs on Eisenhower (192.168.50.140) as a launchd service
.RB ( com.aura.agent ).
It communicates via Discord.
.SS Supervision tree
.nf
supervisor (OneForOne)
\(lq\(rq\(rq db               SQLite actor \(em serialized reads/writes
\(lq\(rq\(rq poller           Discord gateway WebSocket
\(lq\(rq\(rq flare_manager    Flare lifecycle \(em roster, dispatch, monitor, persist
\(lq\(rq\(rq brain            Message routing, LLM tool loop, streaming, handback
\(lq\(rq\(rq scheduler        Config\-driven cron + interval schedules
.fi
.PP
All actors restart independently.
A crash in one does not affect the others.
.SS Subsystems
.TP
.B Flares
Persistent coding agent sessions dispatched to do work.
See
.BR aura\-flares (7).
.TP
.B Domains
Knowledge partitions \(em isolated config, memory, state, and Discord channel
per area of work.
Domains are context selectors, not capability boundaries.
All tools are available in all channels.
.TP
.B Memory
Three keyed\-entry targets: state (per\-domain status), memory (per\-domain
knowledge), user (global profile).
Only the brain writes memory; flares report back.
Active review every 10 turns auto\-persists observations.
.TP
.B Conversations
Per\-channel message history.
In\-memory buffer backed by SQLite.
Tiered auto\-compression: tool pruning at 50%, LLM summarization at 70% of
context window.
.TP
.B Skills
Directory with SKILL.md and optional CLI entrypoint.
Instruction\-only skills teach the LLM; external skills run as subprocesses.
.TP
.B Schedules
Config\-driven periodic tasks in schedules.toml.
Supports fixed intervals ("15m") and cron expressions ("0 9 * * *").
.TP
.B Vision
Two\-model pipeline: vision model describes images, orchestrator runs tool loop
with enriched message.
.TP
.B Shell
General\-purpose shell execution with layered security.
41 dangerous command patterns, approval flow via Discord buttons.
See
.BR aura\-diagnostics (7).
.SS Control commands
.TP
.B gleam run \-\- cognitive\-smoke gmail\-rel42
Send a synthetic Gmail\-shaped event to the running daemon over the local Unix
socket, wait for the cognitive worker to call the configured LLM, and print a
one\-line proof containing event id, body length, evidence count, attention
rationale, work action, authority gate, and citation count.
The event is tagged as synthetic smoke data and policy requires record\-only,
no work, and no downstream side effects.
.TP
.B gleam run \-\- cognitive\-eval fixtures
Send every JSON fixture in evals/cognitive to the running daemon over the local
Unix socket, wait for the cognitive worker to call the configured LLM, and check
decision predicates such as attention action, work action, authority gate,
minimum citations, and expected gaps.
Fixtures avoid exact prose matching; they test judgment surfaces, not output
wording.
.TP
.B gleam run \-\- cognitive\-digest flush
Ask the running daemon to send any queued cognitive digest entries immediately,
using the same delivery path as a scheduled digest window.
.TP
.B gleam run \-\- cognitive\-label EVENT_ID LABEL [EXPECTED_ATTENTION] [NOTE...]
Append a correction label for an existing cognitive event to
~/.local/share/aura/cognitive/labels.jsonl.
Labels include false_interrupt, missed_important, bad_deferral, useful_digest,
bad_concern_match, bad_authority_call, verification_burden_reduced, and
planning_burden_reduced.
EXPECTED_ATTENTION, when provided, must be record, digest, surface_now, or
ask_now and overrides the label's default replay attention expectation.
.PP
In normal Discord use, the user should not need this command. The brain can
record the same labels as an internal side effect of
memory target='attention' when ordinary feedback clearly references a specific
event. The memory tool resolves a recent matching event itself when
expected_attention is provided; event_id is only an override for already-known
ids.
If Aura saves attention memory without event evidence, it must continue the
tool loop before claiming completion, because no replay label has been recorded
yet.
No-event attention writes must be explicit standing preferences; otherwise the
tool rejects the write and asks Aura to include expected_attention first.
Standing attention writes that overlap recent external events are also rejected
until the write includes event evidence.
If search_events has already returned event ids in the same turn, later
standing attention writes are rejected; Aura must use expected_attention and
only include event_id when disambiguation is needed.
.TP
.B gleam run \-\- cognitive\-improve propose
Run labeled cognitive events through the current worker/model/policy path and
write a replay-aware improvement report to
~/.local/share/aura/cognitive/improvement-proposals/.
The report groups cases by likely policy or concern surface and includes
current replay pass/fail evidence. It does not apply policy or concern changes.
.TP
.B gleam run \-\- cognitive\-delivery retry\-dead\-letter
Ask the running daemon to retry delivery ledger entries whose latest state is
dead_letter or legacy failed for digest, surface_now, or ask_now decisions.
The command re-resolves the current configured target and appends a new
delivered or dead_letter ledger entry; it does not rerun the model decision.
.SH LIMITATIONS
.IP \(bu 2
Stdio ACP sessions die on deploy.
Conversation preserved via \-\-resume but in\-flight work is lost.
.IP \(bu 2
No graceful shutdown \(em process stops on SIGTERM.
SQLite WAL handles crash recovery.
.IP \(bu 2
Brain is single\-threaded \(em one message at a time.
Flares run in parallel but handback processing is sequential.
.IP \(bu 2
Streaming tool call parsing is manual JSON extraction \(em fragile for
non\-standard APIs.
.IP \(bu 2
Discord only \(em Telegram/Slack gateway modules not yet built (schema ready).
.IP \(bu 2
claude\-agent\-acp does not support CLI permission flags.
Permissions must be configured via ~/.claude/settings.json.
.IP \(bu 2
Orphan claude\-agent\-acp processes accumulate.
No automated cleanup.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR aura\-flares (7),
.BR aura\-config (5),
.BR aura\-diagnostics (7)
.PP
.I docs/ENGINEERING.md
\(em Design principles and system invariants
.br
.I docs/decisions/
\(em Architecture Decision Records
.br
.I CLAUDE.md
\(em Developer guide for working on the codebase
