.TH AURA\-CONFIG 5 "2026-04-16" "Aura 0.1.0" "Aura Manual"
.SH NAME
aura\-config \- configuration files and environment variables
.SH DESCRIPTION
Aura follows the XDG Base Directory specification.
Configuration lives in ~/.config/aura/, data in ~/.local/share/aura/, and
runtime state in ~/.local/state/aura/.
.SH GLOBAL CONFIGURATION
.SS config.toml
Location: ~/.config/aura/config.toml
.PP
.nf
[discord]
token = "${AURA_DISCORD_TOKEN}"    # Discord bot token
guild = "916608356586778655"       # Discord server ID
default_channel = "general"       # Existing fallback channel name or ID

[blather]
url = "http://10.0.0.2:18100/api"  # Blather API base URL
api_key = "${BLATHER_API_KEY}"     # Blather agent key

[models]
brain = "zai/glm\-5.1"             # Orchestrator model
# brain = "openai\-codex/gpt\-5.5"  # Experimental Codex OAuth route
acp = "claude/opus"               # Flare coding model
monitor = "zai/glm\-5\-turbo"       # Progress summarizer
vision = "zai/glm\-4.6v"           # Image description model

[acp]
global_max_concurrent = 4         # Max simultaneous flares
transport = "stdio"               # "stdio" | "http" | "tmux"
command = "codex\-acp"             # Binary for stdio transport

[memory]
review_interval = 10              # Turns between auto\-review
notify_on_review = true           # Post review findings to Discord

[notifications]
digest_windows = ["07:35", "09:10", "11:10", "15:00"]
timezone = "Asia/Manila"
urgent_bypass = true
.fi
.SH CLAUDE CODE PERMISSIONS
Location: ~/.claude/settings.json on the host running claude\-agent\-acp.
.PP
Required for headless ACP sessions (flares) to write files:
.PP
.nf
{
  "permissions": {
    "allow": ["Bash", "Read", "Edit", "Write",
              "Glob", "Grep", "WebFetch", "WebSearch"],
    "defaultMode": "bypassPermissions"
  }
}
.fi
.PP
claude\-agent\-acp does not support \-\-permission\-mode CLI flags.
Permissions are controlled exclusively through settings files.
Without bypassPermissions, the agent auto\-denies file writes in headless
mode.
.PP
.B Symptom if missing:
Monitor reports "refused by user" or "write blocked".
The permission system is denying the tool before it reaches the ACP
protocol layer.
.SH DOMAIN CONFIGURATION
Location: ~/.config/aura/domains/<name>/config.toml
.PP
.nf
name = "cm2"
description = "CM2 project"
cwd = "/path/to/repos"

[discord]
channel = "1234567890"

[blather]
channel = "blather\-channel\-id"

[acp]
provider = "claude\-code"    # "claude\-code" | "generic"
worktree = true             # Use git worktrees for flares
.fi
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
.B AURA_DISCORD_TOKEN
Discord bot token.
.TP
.B BLATHER_API_KEY
Blather agent API key.
.TP
.B ZAI_API_KEY
z.ai/GLM API key.
.TP
.B ANTHROPIC_API_KEY
Anthropic API key (for ACP).
.TP
.B CLAUDE_CODE_OAUTH_TOKEN
Claude Code auth token (from
.BR "claude setup\-token" ).
.TP
.B AURA_OPENAI_CODEX_ACCESS_TOKEN
Optional bearer token override for
.B openai\-codex/*
model specs. Prefer Codex CLI login cache when possible.
.TP
.B AURA_OPENAI_CODEX_ACCOUNT_ID
Optional ChatGPT workspace/account id header for
.B openai\-codex/*
when using AURA_OPENAI_CODEX_ACCESS_TOKEN.
.TP
.B CODEX_HOME
Optional Codex CLI config/cache directory. Defaults to ~/.codex.
.TP
.B CODEX_API_KEY
Codex API key for codex\-acp if not using Codex login state.
.TP
.B OPENAI_API_KEY
OpenAI API key accepted by codex\-acp as an alternative to CODEX_API_KEY.
.TP
.B BRAVE_API_KEY
Brave Search API key (optional).
.TP
.B HOME
Used for XDG path resolution.
.PP
Configured in the launchd plist:
~/Library/LaunchAgents/com.aura.agent.plist
.SH DEPLOY
.B Always use
.IR "bash scripts/deploy.sh" .
Never manual scp+build.
.PP
The script:
.IP 1. 4
rsync source .gleam and .erl files to Eisenhower
.IP 2. 4
Bootstrap npm runtime tools: agent\-browser, claude\-agent\-acp, codex\-acp
.IP 3. 4
gleam clean && gleam build \(em no stale beams
.IP 4. 4
Fix esqlite NIF \(em gleam clean wipes it, OTP 27+ needs erlc recompile
.IP 5. 4
Recompile Erlang FFI beams \(em gleam build doesn't compile .erl files
.IP 6. 4
launchctl kickstart \-k restarts the service
.IP 7. 4
Wait 5s, tail log to verify
.SS What a deploy does to flares
.IP \(bu 2
All stdio ACP processes die (child processes of Erlang ports)
.IP \(bu 2
On restart, active flares auto\-rekindle with \-\-resume (staggered)
.IP \(bu 2
Parked flares reload from SQLite unchanged
.IP \(bu 2
The deploy script never kills tmux sessions \(em tmux flares survive
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/aura/config.toml
Global configuration.
.TP
.I ~/.config/aura/SOUL.md
Aura's identity and role.
.TP
.I ~/.config/aura/USER.md
User profile (global).
.TP
.I ~/.config/aura/domains/<name>/
Domain config directories.
.TP
.I ~/.config/aura/schedules.toml
Scheduled task definitions.
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/aura/aura.db
SQLite database (conversations, flares, FTS).
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/aura/skills/
Skill directories.
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/aura/domains/<name>/MEMORY.md
Domain knowledge.
.TP
.I ~/.local/state/aura/domains/<name>/STATE.md
Domain current status.
.TP
.I ~/.claude/settings.json
Claude Code permissions (on host).
.TP
.I ~/.claude/projects/.../<session_id>.jsonl
Claude Code session history.
.TP
.I /tmp/aura.log
Runtime log (on Eisenhower).
.TP
.I ~/Library/LaunchAgents/com.aura.agent.plist
launchd service config.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR aura (1),
.BR aura\-flares (7),
.BR aura\-diagnostics (7)
