.TH AURA\-FLARES 7 "2026-04-16" "Aura 0.1.0" "Aura Manual"
.SH NAME
aura\-flares \- flare lifecycle, states, and diagnostics
.SH DESCRIPTION
A flare is a persistent extension of Aura \(em a coding agent session dispatched
to do work.
Flares have identity that survives beyond any single process.
.SS States
.B Active
\(->
.BR Parked " | " Archived " | " Failed(reason)
.SS Lifecycle
.TP
.B Ignite
New flare record created in SQLite.
Fresh ACP session.
.TP
.B Dispatch
ACP process spawned.
Session linked to flare.
.TP
.B Turn complete (end_turn)
Handback fires.
Flare stays Active.
Session stays alive.
Brain may send follow\-up prompts.
.TP
.B Process exit (code 0)
AcpCompleted.
Flare archived.
.TP
.B Process exit (non\-zero)
AcpFailed.
Flare marked failed.
.TP
.B Park
Session killed.
Flare persists with optional triggers.
Can be rekindled.
.TP
.B Rekindle
New session dispatched with \-\-resume to load prior conversation.
Flare keeps same ID.
.TP
.B Kill
Session killed.
Flare marked Failed(killed).
.TP
.B Timeout
Monitor timeout fires.
Flare marked Failed(timed_out).
.SS What kills a flare's session
.IP \(bu 2
Deploy/restart \(em the BEAM process stops, all Erlang ports die with it
.IP \(bu 2
Explicit kill via flare tool
.IP \(bu 2
Park command
.IP \(bu 2
Timeout
.SS What survives a deploy
.IP \(bu 2
Flare records in SQLite (id, label, status, session_id, prompt, domain)
.IP \(bu 2
Claude Code session history on disk (~/.claude/projects/.../<session_id>.jsonl)
.IP \(bu 2
Nothing else.
The ACP process, event loop, monitors \(em all gone.
.SS Recovery on restart
.IP \(bu 2
load_flares reads non\-archived flares from SQLite
.IP \(bu 2
Active flares with dead sessions auto\-rekindle with \-\-resume, staggered at
3s + idx*2s
.IP \(bu 2
Parked flares loaded into memory, no session started
.IP \(bu 2
The \-\-resume flag tells Claude Code to load the prior conversation from
the JSONL file
.SS Rekindle vs Ignite
.B Rekindle
preserves conversation history via \-\-resume.
Use when continuing the same work.
.PP
.B Ignite
starts a fresh session with no prior context.
Use for new work only.
.PP
Never kill + ignite when the work is the same.
Rekindle instead.
.SS Handback
When an ACP session completes a turn (end_turn), the brain receives the agent's
results (last 5 tool names + agent's final text + monitor summary), appends
them as a system message to the thread conversation, and re\-enters the tool
loop.
The brain responds naturally with the findings.
If the tool loop fails, the raw result is posted as a fallback.
Handback is never silent.
.SS Domains
A domain is a knowledge partition \(em an area of the user's work.
Each domain has its own config, context, memory, state, and Discord channel.
Domains are context selectors, not capability boundaries.
All tools are available in all channels.
.PP
.B Directory layout (XDG):
.nf
~/.config/aura/domains/<name>/      Config: AGENTS.md, config.toml
~/.local/share/aura/domains/<name>/  Data: MEMORY.md, log.jsonl, repos/
~/.local/state/aura/domains/<name>/  State: STATE.md
.fi
.PP
Brain routes by channel_id to domain name.
Messages in a domain's channel load that domain's context.
Messages in #aura get global context only.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
.B "Flare not found"
Looking up by old session name.
Session names change on rekindle.
Use flare ID (f\-...) or label instead.
.TP
.B "refused by user" / writes blocked
ACP permissions not configured.
Set permissions.defaultMode in ~/.claude/settings.json.
See
.BR aura\-config (5).
.TP
.B Flare idle after restart
Recovery rekindled with generic prompt.
The \-\-resume loads prior conversation; brain should send specific follow\-up.
.TP
.B "event for unknown session"
Event arrived after flare was archived.
Harmless warning.
.TP
.B Context lost on rekindle
Brain killed and re\-ignited instead of rekindling.
Rekindle preserves context; ignite does not.
.TP
.B Multiple "ACP Started" messages
Same flare dispatched twice (original + rekindle).
Normal after restart.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR aura (1),
.BR aura\-config (5),
.BR aura\-diagnostics (7)
