.TH AURA\-TESTING 7 "2026-04-19" "Aura 0.1.0" "Aura Manual"
.SH NAME
aura\-testing \- testing conventions, fakes, and feature\-file organization
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gleam test
.br
.B gleam run \-m features/runner
.br
.B gleam test \-\-tag @slow
.RI "(future)"
.br
.B gleam test \-\-contract
.RI "(future)"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Aura's test suite is built on two frameworks with a hard separation between
what each covers.
.PP
.B gleeunit
(the Gleam standard test framework) owns all unit tests in
.IR test/aura/ .
These tests exist today and cover individual modules in isolation: pure
functions, actor state machines, data transformations.
.PP
.B dream_test
owns all behavior tests in
.IR test/features/ .
These tests run Gherkin
.I .feature
files through a composed step registry.
They exercise complete workflows: a user message arrives, a real BEAM
supervision subtree processes it using faked external clients, and the
outcome is asserted on the fake's event log.
.PP
The separation is permanent.
Migrating unit tests to dream_test would be weeks of mechanical work with
silent-regression risk and no gain.
Each test fits the framework that makes its intent clearest.
.SS Two\-layer model
.TP
.B Behavior tests
Does my code do the right thing?
Unit tests of pure functions and integration tests of actors running in a
real BEAM with faked network boundaries.
Fast, deterministic.
This is the bulk of the suite.
.TP
.B Contract tests
Does the external world behave as assumed?
Live calls to z.ai, Discord, Google, Jira.
Run on demand.
A failure means a provider changed something, not that we broke.
.TP
.B Fault\-injection tests
Does my code recover when things break?
A named subset of behavior tests.
Inject stream stalls, worker crashes, malformed responses.
Tagged
.B @fault\-injection
so they can be counted and audited; included in the default run.
.PP
These categories come from principle #9 in
.IR docs/ENGINEERING.md .
Principle #10 requires every feature to ship with a behavior test that
fails without the change and passes with it.
The trivial-test hook (see
.BR HOOKS )
enforces this mechanically.
.SH DIRECTORY STRUCTURE
.nf
test/
\[u251C]\[u2500]\[u2500] aura/                    existing gleeunit unit tests
\[u2502]   \[u251C]\[u2500]\[u2500] brain_tools_test.gleam
\[u2502]   \[u251C]\[u2500]\[u2500] channel_actor_test.gleam
\[u2502]   \[u2514]\[u2500]\[u2500] ...
\[u251C]\[u2500]\[u2500] features/                dream_test scenarios
\[u2502]   \[u251C]\[u2500]\[u2500] README.md            points to man aura\-testing
\[u2502]   \[u251C]\[u2500]\[u2500] workflows/           user\-observable journeys
\[u2502]   \[u2502]   \[u251C]\[u2500]\[u2500] send\-message\-to\-aura.feature
\[u2502]   \[u2502]   \[u251C]\[u2500]\[u2500] domain\-context\-loaded.feature
\[u2502]   \[u2502]   \[u251C]\[u2500]\[u2500] upload\-with\-vision.feature
\[u2502]   \[u2502]   \[u251C]\[u2500]\[u2500] tool\-call\-read\-file.feature
\[u2502]   \[u2502]   \[u251C]\[u2500]\[u2500] multi\-tool\-turn.feature
\[u2502]   \[u2502]   \[u251C]\[u2500]\[u2500] tool\-error\-recovery.feature
\[u2502]   \[u2502]   \[u251C]\[u2500]\[u2500] memory\-persistence.feature
\[u2502]   \[u2502]   \[u251C]\[u2500]\[u2500] run\-skill\-stdout.feature
\[u2502]   \[u2502]   \[u2514]\[u2500]\[u2500] progressive\-edits.feature
\[u2502]   \[u251C]\[u2500]\[u2500] capabilities/        per\-tool / per\-module behavior (future)
\[u2502]   \[u251C]\[u2500]\[u2500] fault\-tolerance/     failure mode scenarios (future)
\[u2502]   \[u2514]\[u2500]\[u2500] steps/               step definitions grouped by concept
\[u2502]       \[u251C]\[u2500]\[u2500] common_steps.gleam
\[u2502]       \[u251C]\[u2500]\[u2500] llm_steps.gleam
\[u2502]       \[u2514]\[u2500]\[u2500] tool_steps.gleam
\[u251C]\[u2500]\[u2500] fakes/                   shared fake clients
\[u2502]   \[u251C]\[u2500]\[u2500] README.md
\[u2502]   \[u251C]\[u2500]\[u2500] fake_discord.gleam
\[u2502]   \[u251C]\[u2500]\[u2500] fake_llm.gleam
\[u2502]   \[u2514]\[u2500]\[u2500] fake_skill_runner.gleam
\[u251C]\[u2500]\[u2500] contract/                live external contract tests
\[u2502]   \[u2514]\[u2500]\[u2500] ...
\[u251C]\[u2500]\[u2500] test_harness.gleam       TestSystem constructor + teardown
\[u2514]\[u2500]\[u2500] test_helpers.gleam       shared helpers
.fi
.PP
The
.I capabilities/
and
.I fault\-tolerance/
subdirectories are defined in the spec and will be populated in subsequent
plan phases.
.I workflows/
holds the nine safety\-net scenarios shipped in Plan A.
.SH WRITING A FEATURE TEST
A feature file describes one capability or workflow.
Each scenario is independent: no ordering dependencies, no shared state.
.SS Step\-by\-step recipe
.TP
.B 1. Create the .feature file
Place it under the subdirectory that matches its scope:
.IR workflows/ ,
.IR capabilities/ ,
or
.IR fault\-tolerance/ .
.TP
.B 2. Write the Gherkin
Follow the structure below.
One scenario = one behavior.
Use present tense, user\-observable language.
.TP
.B 3. Check that all steps are already registered
Consult the
.B STEP DEFINITIONS
section below.
If a step is missing, add it to the appropriate steps module.
.TP
.B 4. Run
.nf
gleam test
.fi
.TP
.B 5. Verify
Confirm the new scenario appears in output and passes.
.SS Concrete example
From
.IR test/features/workflows/tool\-error\-recovery.feature :
.PP
.nf
Feature: tool error recovery \[em] LLM sees errors and adapts
  When a tool call fails, the error is returned to the LLM as a tool
  result message. The LLM's next iteration can reference that error.

  Scenario: read_file on missing path returns error; LLM acknowledges
    Given a fresh Aura system
    And the LLM will call "read_file" with "{\"path\": \"/tmp/missing\"}"
    And the LLM will respond with "Sorry, that file doesn't exist"
    When a user message "read that file" arrives in "aura\-channel"
    Then a Discord message is sent to "aura\-channel"
    And the Discord message sent to "aura\-channel" contains "doesn't exist"
    And the LLM last call messages contain "Error:"
.fi
.PP
The
.B Given
steps establish the initial fake state.
The
.B When
step sends a real message to the brain actor.
The
.B Then
steps assert on the fake Discord event log and fake LLM call log.
No mocks; no stubs; no patching — the full BEAM supervision tree runs.
.SS Feature file structure
.nf
Feature: <capability or workflow name>
  <one\-line description>

  Background:
    Given <shared setup for all scenarios in this file>

  Scenario: <user\-observable behavior, present tense>
    Given <initial state>
    When <one triggering action>
    Then <one observable outcome>
    And <additional outcomes>
.fi
.SH STEP DEFINITIONS
Steps are registered in three modules under
.IR test/features/steps/ .
All modules are composed in
.I test/features/runner.gleam
and passed to dream_test.
.SS common_steps.gleam
.TP
.B "a fresh Aura system"
Constructs a
.B TestSystem
with fresh actors, a unique SQLite path, and all fake clients.
Stores it as
.I "system"
in the world.
.TP
.BI "a fresh Aura system with domain " {string} " containing AGENTS.md " {string}
Constructs a
.B TestSystem
and writes the given AGENTS.md content to the domain's config directory
before brain starts.
Channel ID is derived as
.IR <domain_name>\-channel .
.TP
.BI "a user message " {string} " arrives in " {string}
Sends a
.B HandleMessage
to the brain actor for the given channel.
.TP
.BI "a user message with image " {string} " arrives in " {string}
Same as above but includes a fake image attachment
.RI ( "fake://test-image/not-a-real-url" )
to drive the vision preprocessing path.
.TP
.BI "a Discord message is sent to " {string}
Polls
.B fake_discord.assert_sent_to
with a 2000ms timeout.
Passes as soon as one send event is recorded for the channel.
.TP
.BI "the Discord message sent to " {string} " contains " {string}
Polls
.B fake_discord.assert_latest_contains
(Sent or Edited) with a 3000ms timeout.
Covers both plain sends and progressive\-edit replies.
.TP
.BI "no Discord message is sent to " {string}
Sleeps 200ms then asserts zero Sent events for the channel.
.TP
.BI "the turn deadline fires after " {int} " " {word}
Duration placeholder; assertion body lands with the channel_actor refactor.
Unit is parsed by
.B duration_to_ms
(see below).
.TP
.BI "a tmp file at " {string} " containing " {string}
Writes the given content to the given absolute path via simplifile.
.TP
.BI "Discord received at least " {int} " edits to the same message"
Polls for at least N
.B Edited
events within 2000ms.
Used to verify progressive streaming edits.
.SS Duration helper
.nf
duration_to_ms(n, "ms")          \[->] n
duration_to_ms(n, "millisecond") \[->] n
duration_to_ms(n, "second")      \[->] n * 1000
duration_to_ms(n, "seconds")     \[->] n * 1000
duration_to_ms(n, "minute")      \[->] n * 60_000
duration_to_ms(n, "minutes")     \[->] n * 60_000
.fi
.SS llm_steps.gleam
.TP
.BI "the LLM will respond with " {string}
Scripts a
.BR Delta + Complete
response on the fake LLM.
.TP
.BI "the LLM will call " {string} " with " {string}
Scripts a
.B Complete
carrying one tool call.
The JSON args string uses Gherkin
.B \e"
escapes; the step unescapes before passing to
.BR fake_llm.script_tool_call .
.TP
.BI "the LLM will call run_skill with name " {string} " and args " {string}
Convenience step that builds
.B run_skill
JSON server-side, avoiding Gherkin escape issues with nested JSON.
.TP
.BI "the LLM will fail with " {string}
Scripts an
.B ErrorEvent
response.
.TP
.B "the LLM will reason indefinitely"
Scripts 500
.B Reasoning
events (no content progress).
Used for stuck\-stream fault\-injection scenarios.
.TP
.BI "the vision model will describe the image as " {string}
Scripts a response on the
.B chat_text
queue (vision preprocessing path).
.TP
.BI "the LLM user message contains " {string}
Asserts that any recorded
.B stream_with_tools
call carried a user message containing the substring.
.TP
.BI "the LLM system prompt contains " {string}
Polls up to 2000ms for a system message containing the substring.
Proves domain context assembly.
.TP
.BI "the LLM last call messages contain " {string}
Polls up to 2000ms; asserts any message in the
.I most\-recent
.B stream_with_tools
call contains the substring.
Used to verify tool errors surfaced as
.B ToolResultMessage
entries.
.TP
.BI "the LLM will stream " {int} " deltas of " {int} " characters each"
Scripts N
.B Delta
events of M characters each, followed by a
.B Complete
carrying the full accumulated content.
Drives multiple progressive edits in brain's stream collector (fires every
150 chars).
.SS tool_steps.gleam
.TP
.BI "skill " {string} " will return stdout " {string}
Scripts a successful
.B SkillResult
(exit_code 0) for the named skill.
.TP
.BI "skill " {string} " will fail with stderr " {string}
Scripts a failing
.B SkillResult
(exit_code 1) for the named skill.
.TP
.BI "skill " {string} " was invoked"
Asserts the named skill appears in the fake skill runner's invocation log.
.SH FAKES
Every fake follows the same pattern:
.B "new() -> #(FakeXxx, XxxClient)"
returns a handle for test assertions and a client satisfying the production
interface.
.PP
Fakes are actors.
They survive across steps in the same scenario (state accumulates in the
event log).
They are torn down with the
.B TestSystem
at scenario end.
.SS fake_discord
Intercepts all Discord REST operations.
.PP
.B Construction:
.nf
fake_discord.new() \[->] #(FakeDiscord, DiscordClient)
.fi
.PP
.B Event types:
.nf
Sent(channel_id, content, msg_id)
Edited(channel_id, msg_id, new_content)
TypingTriggered(channel_id)
AttachmentSent(channel_id, content, path)
ThreadCreated(parent_channel_id, msg_id, name, thread_id)
.fi
.PP
.B Assertion API:
.TP
.BI "assert_sent_to(fake, channel_id, timeout_ms) \[->] String"
Polls until a message is sent to the channel; returns its content.
Panics on timeout.
.TP
.BI "assert_latest_contains(fake, channel_id, expected, timeout_ms) \[->] String"
Polls until the latest Sent or Edited event for the channel contains
.IR expected .
Handles progressive edits where the final content arrives via an edit, not
a fresh send.
.TP
.BI "all_sent_to(fake, channel_id) \[->] List(String)"
Returns content of all Sent events to the channel, in order.
.TP
.BI "all_events(fake) \[->] List(DiscordEvent)"
Returns every recorded event in chronological order.
.TP
.BI "seed_channel_parent(fake, channel, parent)"
Pre-populates the channel\[->]parent mapping for
.B get_channel_parent
calls.
.SS fake_llm
Intercepts LLM streaming calls.
Scripted responses are consumed FIFO by
.BR stream_with_tools .
A separate queue handles
.BR chat_text
(vision preprocessing).
.PP
.B Construction:
.nf
fake_llm.new() \[->] #(FakeLLM, LLMClient)
.fi
.PP
.B Event types:
.nf
Delta(text)
Reasoning
Complete(content, tool_calls_json, prompt_tokens)
ErrorEvent(reason)
.fi
.PP
.B Scripting API:
.TP
.BI "script(fake, List(ScriptedEvent))"
Push a custom event sequence.
.TP
.BI "script_text_response(fake, text)"
Shortcut: Delta(text) + Complete(text, "[]", 0).
.TP
.BI "script_tool_call(fake, tool_name, args_json)"
Shortcut: Complete carrying one tool call in the flat JSON format
.B aura_stream_ffi
produces.
.TP
.BI "script_hang(fake)"
Push an empty script — the next call returns but emits nothing.
Simulates a stuck stream.
.TP
.BI "script_error(fake, reason)"
Push a single ErrorEvent.
.TP
.B "script_reasoning_forever(fake)"
Push 500 Reasoning events.
Simulates a model stuck in thinking with no content progress.
.TP
.BI "script_chat_text_response(fake, text)"
Push a response onto the chat_text (vision) queue.
.PP
.B Assertion API:
.TP
.BI "calls(fake) \[->] List(LlmCall)"
Returns every recorded
.B stream_with_tools
invocation in order.
Each
.B LlmCall
carries
.I messages
and
.IR tools ,
so assertions can inspect what the brain sent to the LLM.
.SS fake_skill_runner
Intercepts
.B run_skill
tool invocations.
Results are scripted per skill name (FIFO per name).
.PP
.B Construction:
.nf
fake_skill_runner.new() \[->] #(FakeSkillRunner, SkillRunner)
.fi
.PP
.B Scripting API:
.TP
.BI "script_for(fake, skill_name, SkillResult)"
Push one
.B SkillResult
for the named skill.
.B SkillResult
has fields
.IR exit_code ,
.IR stdout ,
.IR stderr .
.PP
.B Assertion API:
.TP
.BI "invocations(fake) \[->] List(SkillInvocation)"
Returns every invocation in chronological order.
Each
.B SkillInvocation
has fields
.I name
and
.IR args .
.SH RUNNING TESTS
.TP
.B gleam test
Runs everything: gleeunit unit tests
.RI ( test/aura/ )
plus dream_test feature tests
.RI ( test/features/ ).
Excludes
.B @slow
and
.B @wip
scenarios.
Includes
.B @fault\-injection
scenarios.
Run on every commit and before every deploy.
.TP
.B gleam run \-m features/runner
Runs only the dream_test feature suite directly.
Useful when iterating on a feature file without waiting for the full unit
suite.
.TP
.B gleam test \-\-tag @slow
.RI "(future)"
Adds scenarios using production\-scale timing constants.
Run before major deploys.
Not yet implemented — the
.B @slow
tag is reserved; scenarios using it exist in the spec but are not yet
written.
.TP
.B gleam test \-\-contract
.RI "(future)"
Runs live external contract tests from
.IR test/contract/ .
Requires network and valid credentials.
Failures indicate provider API drift, not regressions in Aura code.
On demand only.
.SH TAGS
Three tags are defined.
The set is intentionally small.
.TP
.B @slow
Scenarios that use production timing constants
.RB ( production_timing )
rather than the test miniatures.
They may take tens of seconds.
Excluded by default; include pre\-deploy.
.TP
.B @fault\-injection
Scenarios that inject failures: stuck streams, stream errors, worker
crashes, malformed responses.
Included in the default run.
The fault\-injection category is important enough to name explicitly even
though it is a subset of behavior tests — these scenarios verify the "let
it crash" promise, not just the happy path.
.TP
.B @wip
Scenarios that are in progress or known\-failing.
Excluded by default.
A scenario should not stay
.B @wip
beyond the task that introduced it.
.PP
Tags appear above
.B Scenario
lines in feature files:
.PP
.nf
@fault\-injection
Scenario: stream error causes brain to report failure
  ...
.fi
.SH ISOLATION
Every scenario runs against a fresh supervision subtree with no shared
state.
.SS TestSystem
.nf
pub type TestSystem {
  TestSystem(
    brain_subject:     Subject(BrainMessage),
    fake_discord:      FakeDiscord,
    fake_llm:          FakeLLM,
    fake_skill_runner: FakeSkillRunner,
    db_path:           String,
  )
}
.fi
.TP
.B fresh_system()
Constructs a new
.BR TestSystem :
starts a DB actor pointing at a unique SQLite file under
.IR /tmp/aura\-test\-<uuid>/ ,
starts a brain actor wired to all fake clients, returns the
.BR TestSystem .
.TP
.B fresh_system_with_domain(name, agents_md, channel_id)
Same, plus writes the given AGENTS.md content to the domain config
directory so
.B domain.load_context
picks it up on the first message.
.TP
.B teardown(system)
Stops the supervision subtree and removes the scratch SQLite file.
.PP
Scenarios call
.B fresh_system
in a
.B Background
or
.B Given
step.
Teardown is called by the dream_test lifecycle hook after each scenario.
Pattern matches Elixir's Ecto sandbox: construction\-time isolation, no
reset logic.
.PP
Parallel scenario execution is safe: each scenario runs on its own BEAM
schedulers against its own DB file.
.SH DETERMINISTIC TIMING
Production timing constants are too large for a fast test suite.
.B test_timing
substitutes smaller values for every actor that has a timer:
.PP
.nf
production_timing = Timing(
  turn_deadline_ms:      600_000,
  stream_retry_delays_ms: [0, 500, 2000],
  heartbeat_interval_ms:  30_000,
  typing_refresh_ms:       8_000,
)

test_timing = Timing(
  turn_deadline_ms:      200,
  stream_retry_delays_ms: [0, 5, 10],
  heartbeat_interval_ms:  50,
  typing_refresh_ms:      100,
)
.fi
.PP
The
.B TestSystem
wires
.B test_timing
into the brain and channel actors.
Scenarios that want to verify real\-time behavior (e.g., that a stream
actually hangs for 30s) tag themselves
.B @slow
and receive
.B production_timing
instead.
.PP
There is no clock mocking and no virtual scheduler.
Actors sleep for real.
The miniature timing constants make the sleeps harmless.
.SH FAULT INJECTION
Fault\-injection tests inject failures at the fake boundary, then assert the
supervision tree recovers.
.SS LLM stream hang
.nf
fake_llm.script_hang(sys.fake_llm)
.fi
The next
.B stream_with_tools
call returns but sends no events to the callback Pid.
Brain's turn\-deadline timer (200ms in test timing) fires and the brain
reports the hang to Discord.
.SS LLM stream error
.nf
fake_llm.script_error(sys.fake_llm, "provider unavailable")
.fi
An
.B ErrorEvent
arrives at the callback Pid.
Brain logs the error and sends a failure message to Discord.
.SS LLM reasoning forever
.nf
fake_llm.script_reasoning_forever(sys.fake_llm)
.fi
500
.B Reasoning
events arrive with no
.B Complete
or
.B Delta
content.
Combined with the turn\-deadline timer, this exercises the stuck\-reasoning
recovery path without any HTTP machinery.
.SS Skill failure
.nf
fake_skill_runner.script_for(
  sys.fake_skill_runner,
  "my\-skill",
  skill.SkillResult(exit_code: 1, stdout: "", stderr: "disk full"),
)
.fi
The
.B run_skill
tool returns a failure result.
The LLM receives the error text and its reply surfaces it to the user.
.PP
These patterns originate from the stream hang Aura hit in production on
2026\-04\-19 (see
.IR MEMORY.md :
Stratus WebSocket bug).
The fakes make the failure reproducible in milliseconds.
.SH CONTRACT TESTS
Contract tests live under
.IR test/contract/
and use gleeunit (no dream_test overhead).
They make real network calls to external providers.
.PP
.B Purpose:
catch provider API drift.
If z.ai changes a response field, if Discord deprecates an endpoint, the
contract suite catches it — not a user report.
.PP
.B When to run:
on demand, before a major release, or when a provider publishes breaking
changes.
Not per\-commit.
.PP
.B Credentials:
must be available as environment variables (see
.I docs/ENGINEERING.md
environment section).
.PP
.B Failure semantics:
a failing contract test means a provider changed, not a regression.
Investigate the provider's changelog.
Never let a contract failure block a commit.
.SH UPSTREAM CONTRIBUTION
Aura is an early adopter of dream_test.
This suite doubles as a stress test of the framework.
Generalizable patterns are marked with
.B // UPSTREAM_CANDIDATE:
comments in the code.
.PP
Contribution process:
.TP
1.
Ship locally; use the pattern in 3\-5 scenarios.
.TP
2.
Open a dream_test issue describing the pattern.
.TP
3.
PR after maintainer acknowledgment; extract a minimal upstream shape.
.TP
4.
Migrate Aura on the next dream_test version bump.
.PP
Current candidates:
.TP
.B Custom capture type registration
dream_test has no
.B ParameterType
API.
Today
.B {int} {word}
pairs parsed by
.B duration_to_ms
work around this.
An upstream
.B {duration}
type would eliminate the workaround at every step that handles time.
.TP
.B Actor lifecycle helpers
BEAM\-native test utilities for starting/stopping supervised actors, waiting
for process registration, asserting mailbox state.
.TP
.B Fake\-client patterns
Function\-field record DI paired with scripted fake actors.
The
.B new() \-\> #(Fake, Client)
pattern is general enough to generalize.
.TP
.B Fault\-injection utilities
.B script_hang ,
.B script_error ,
.B script_reasoning_forever
as a first\-class dream_test library, not just Aura\-specific helpers.
.TP
.B Step\-module composition helpers
.B list.append
chaining across step modules works but is verbose.
An upstream
.B steps.merge([mod1.all(), mod2.all(), ...])
helper would read better.
.SH HOOKS
.SS Trivial\-test enforcement
A
.B PostToolUse
hook in
.I .claude/settings.json
runs a haiku subagent on every test\-file write.
.PP
The hook catches:
.TP
.B Literal\-against\-literal assertions
.B should.equal(1, 1)
\(em the assertion passes regardless of the code under test.
.TP
.B No assertions
A test that calls functions but asserts nothing.
.TP
.B Mocks asserting their own return values
Scripting the LLM to return X and then asserting the LLM returned X
(without any real code path in between).
.PP
A commit that adds a test file only trips the hook once; iterative edits
within a session trip it on each save.
When the hook identifies a tautological test it blocks and requests a fix.
This is principle #10's verification bar enforced mechanically, not just
culturally.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Example 1: Plain text workflow
.nf
Feature: send a message to the aura channel and get a text response
  Baseline tool loop.

  Scenario: aura channel text response
    Given a fresh Aura system
    And the LLM will respond with "Hello, Melbs"
    When a user message "hi" arrives in "aura\-channel"
    Then a Discord message is sent to "aura\-channel"
    And the Discord message sent to "aura\-channel" contains "Hello, Melbs"
.fi
.SS Example 2: Domain context
.nf
Feature: domain context loaded into system prompt

  Scenario: AGENTS.md content appears in LLM system prompt
    Given a fresh Aura system with domain "work" containing AGENTS.md
          "You are an expert in linear algebra"
    And the LLM will respond with "ok"
    When a user message "hello" arrives in "work\-channel"
    Then the LLM system prompt contains "linear algebra"
.fi
.SS Example 3: Skill invocation
.nf
Feature: run_skill stdout surfaces in reply

  Scenario: skill output reaches Discord
    Given a fresh Aura system
    And skill "summarise\-pr" will return stdout "LGTM"
    And the LLM will call run_skill with name "summarise\-pr" and args ""
    And the LLM will respond with "The skill said: LGTM"
    When a user message "run the skill" arrives in "aura\-channel"
    Then skill "summarise\-pr" was invoked
    And the Discord message sent to "aura\-channel" contains "LGTM"
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR aura (1),
.BR aura\-config (5),
.BR aura\-diagnostics (7),
.BR aura\-flares (7)
.PP
.I docs/ENGINEERING.md
\(em Principles #9 (test layers) and #10 (verification is non-negotiable)
.br
.I docs/decisions/023\-client\-dependency\-injection.md
\(em ADR for DI client boundaries
.br
.I docs/decisions/024\-dual\-framework\-testing.md
\(em ADR for gleeunit + dream_test split
.br
.I test/features/README.md
\(em Quick\-start pointer and minimal recipe
.br
.I test/fakes/README.md
\(em Fake inventory
