.TH AURA-BROWSER 7 "2026-04-18" "Aura 0.1.0" "Aura Manual"
.SH NAME
aura\-browser \- browser automation tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
Control a headless browser from aura. Backed by the
.B agent-browser
CLI.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The browser tool enables the LLM to drive a real Chromium instance for
authenticated, JS-rendered, or form-based sites. Sessions persist cookies
and local storage across tool calls within the same Discord thread.
.SH ACTIONS
.TP
.B navigate
Open a URL. Returns a compact snapshot of the page automatically.
.TP
.B snapshot
Return the current page's accessibility tree with element refs
.RB ( @e1 ,
.BR @e2 ,
...). Pass
.B full=true
for the complete tree.
.TP
.B click
Click the element identified by
.BR ref .
.TP
.B type
Type
.B text
into the input identified by
.BR ref .
.TP
.B press
Press a key
.RB ( Enter ,
.BR Tab ,
.BR Escape ,
.BR ArrowDown ,
...).
.TP
.B back
Navigate back in history.
.TP
.B vision
Screenshot the page and ask the vision model about it. Useful for
captcha, visual layout, or things the accessibility tree misses.
.SH SESSIONS
Sessions are auto-scoped per Discord thread via
.BR channel_id .
Two threads get two isolated browsers. Use the
.B session
argument for a named session shared across threads or for scheduled
tasks with no thread context.
.SH CDP ATTACH
Pass
.B cdp_url
to attach to a user-controlled Chromium with
.B --remote-debugging-port
enabled. Useful when auth is maintained in openclaw or the user's own
Chrome profile.
.SH AUTHENTICATION
Aura does not log in automatically. For authenticated sites:
.IP \(bu 2
Start
.B agent-browser
interactively on Eisenhower, log in manually. The session persists.
.IP \(bu 2
OR start a browser with remote debugging enabled and pass
.B cdp_url
to aura.
.PP
If a navigation lands on a login page, the tool returns
.B AUTH_REQUIRED
and stops. The LLM surfaces this to you.
.SH SAFETY
Two tool-layer blocks, no user override in v1:
.IP \(bu 2
URLs targeting private/internal IPs or localhost are blocked (SSRF).
.IP \(bu 2
URLs containing API keys / tokens in query parameters are blocked
(exfiltration via prompt injection).
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /tmp/aura-browser-<session>/
Per-session socket directory for the agent-browser daemon.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B AURA_BROWSER_CDP_URL
Optional default CDP endpoint. Can still be overridden per tool call.
.TP
.B AURA_BROWSER_TIMEOUT_MS
Override default per-action timeout (default 30000).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR aura (1),
.BR aura\-flares (7),
.BR aura\-config (5),
.BR aura\-diagnostics (7),
.BR agent-browser (1).
