.TH AURA\-DIAGNOSTICS 7 "2026-04-16" "Aura 0.1.0" "Aura Manual"
.SH NAME
aura\-diagnostics \- troubleshooting, diagnostics, and maintenance
.SH DESCRIPTION
Cross\-cutting symptoms that span subsystems.
For flare\-specific diagnostics, see
.BR aura\-flares (7).
.SH SYSTEM DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
.B Bot not responding
Gateway disconnected, brain crashed, or service down.
Check /tmp/aura.log for crash or heartbeat timeout.
.TP
.B "Sorry, I crashed while processing"
Tool loop exception in brain.
Check log for the stack trace.
Brain restarts automatically.
.TP
.B Flare writes blocked
~/.claude/settings.json missing permission config.
See
.BR aura\-config (5),
section CLAUDE CODE PERMISSIONS.
.TP
.B Flare loses context after restart
Normal \(em stdio sessions die with BEAM.
\-\-resume reloads conversation.
Not a "model switch".
Check if session_id was persisted.
.TP
.B Scheduled task failing
Skill exited non\-zero, or API token expired.
Log shows "[scheduler] <name> failed:" with error.
.TP
.B "Token has been expired or revoked"
Google OAuth refresh token expired.
Re\-authenticate via Aura CLI.
.TP
.B Orphan claude\-agent\-acp processes
Sessions from killed/archived flares not cleaned up.
Run: ps aux | grep claude\-agent\-acp \(em kill stale processes.
.TP
.B "Actor discarding unexpected message"
Message sent to wrong process or after process restarted.
Harmless.
Usually a stale reply_to subject from recovery.
.TP
.B Conversation context missing
Compression pruned it, or conversation not loaded from DB.
Check if channel has conversation in SQLite.
.TP
.B Discord typing indicator stuck
Typing loop process not killed after response.
Brain should kill typing process.
Clears after ~10s.
.SH SHELL DIAGNOSTICS
The shell tool
.RB ( "shell" )
has its own security pipeline.
.TP
.B "Command rejected by user"
User clicked reject on approval.
Normal \(em command was flagged as dangerous.
.TP
.B "Approval timed out"
No user response within 15 minutes.
User wasn't watching Discord.
.TP
.B Safe command flagged
False positive in pattern list.
Review pattern in shell.gleam:dangerous_patterns().
.TP
.B Shell output truncated
Output exceeded 50K chars.
Normal \(em 40% head and 60% tail preserved.
.SH MAINTENANCE
Man pages must stay accurate.
The brain reads them via the shell tool for self\-diagnosis.
Stale documentation is worse than no documentation \(em the brain will
confidently act on wrong information.
.PP
Rules:
.IP 1. 4
Update on change, same commit.
Not retroactively.
.IP 2. 4
Diagnostics come from bugs.
Every new failure mode gets an entry.
.IP 3. 4
Delete before you add.
Don't append "NOTE: no longer true."
.IP 4. 4
Configuration is verified, not assumed.
Test before documenting.
.IP 5. 4
A pre\-commit hook (Haiku agent) checks if man pages need updating.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR aura (1),
.BR aura\-flares (7),
.BR aura\-config (5)
